---
title: Next Iphone Wishlist
date: 2022-03-31T15:21:55.000+01:00

---
I have been thinking recently about what I want to see in the next iPhone. I currently have a 12 Pro Max and I am due for an upgrade around December of this year, which means Apple will have released the 14 Pro Max at that stage. So, what do I want to see in it? This is just a random bloke with some ideas... I have no insider knowledge...

* USB C: this is a big one. iPhones now shoot ProRes Video, and 1 Min of 1080P ProRes is around 1GB inside and 1 Min of 4K ProRes is 6GB. on USB 2 (which is what is used for Lightning) the MAX you could possibly download is 480Mbit/s or 60MBytes/s, so a 1 Min Video will take nearly 2 min to download. Not a massive time, but still a pain. USB C (be it 3, 3.1, 3.11 for Workgroups or whatever they are calling it these days) or Thunderbolt would make downloads a LOT faster, and possibly allow for faster charging and new accessories options (Ethernet, external video recorders (see below), external Storage and more.)
* External Recording of Video: Pro cameras usually have the option of a clean RAW video signal over an HDMI connection for external recording. A nice to have would be allowing the iPhone to do the same. And if it's not an external recorder, even an external storage device. Think USB C SSD or the like. It probably won't happen... Apple wants you to buy the bigger storage option and don't want it to be expandable... But it would be nice.
* Better camera: iPhone cameras are good, don't get me wrong, but 12MP for the main shooter seems a little small... My main camera, a Canon 5Ds, shoots 50MP images. Yes, it's a Pro DSLR, but the iPhone is a Pro Phone aimed at Pro Videographers and Photographers... Bumping the main shooter to 48MP would allow 8K video recording too!
* Recording from external cameras, or even other iPhones: Probably not something that would be in an iPhone, maybe an iPad Pro, but as part of that external recording part, being able to hook another camera, say a GoPro or even Canon DSLR up to your device via USB C and start recording in ProRes to internal storage would be very cool. If it was added to the iPad Pro, you could record from multiple cameras with the M1 chip. 1 or more iPhone 14 Pro Max's hooked to a USB C Hub and hooked to a single iPad Pro, with an external SSD and all video shown on the screen and recorded to the SSD. Throw in a GoPro that does not do ProRes and let the iPad record it in ProRes to disk in real-time. Nice workflow saver.
* Center Stage for the front camera, along with a better front camera: I have wanted Apple to add a USB port to the Apple TV to allow you to do Video calls since the pandemic hit, but it probably won't happen. So, using your iPhone as a camera for your AppleTV is the next best option. Give it a better front-facing camera and enable [Center Stage](https://support.apple.com/en-ie/HT212315) and you will be good to go!

Can't think of anything else off the top of my head... but that would be enough to start with.